all right race fans we're here with Dave
Morris in the sport class hangar this is
the newest up and coming on class and
it's fabulous sexy sexy looking
airplanes anyway so Dave this is your
airplane tell us a little bit about you
and it yes this is a Lancer legacy and
it's basically just the transportation
airplane 51 weeks of the year and then
we come up here at Reno and we tape
everything up and try to get rid of all
the nasty drag and run it as hard as we
can without breaking it because we have
to fly at the other 51 weeks a year it's
a it's a great class because you can be
as fast as you can afford right aches a
little money to go fast right it takes a
lot of money a lot of money a lot of
talent a lot of skill a lot of
dedication and a lot more money in then
and then a little more money so you're
out of the San Carlos airport normally
and this is your run around but what do
you do professionally I'm a test pilot
for our who I have a company called
myriad research and I do testing mostly
in the experimental markets for people
that build their own planes and need
someone to fly them i do do some
consulting testing for kit manufacturers
when they come out with a new kid a lot
of times I'll fly it
help develop it before they start to
market it was 593 this morning I'm just
been told but that's like candles on the
cake I don't look at that oh yeah but
yeah I mean I just hate being passed so
it was a not a banner day but tomorrow
I'm going to pass it back and they'll be
all fun well it's it's a very visceral
sport the sound of the race is coming by
this year unfortunately I'm hearing it
more than other years I applied several
other classes so usually i'm running
around i don't get to watch very many
races but it really is pretty cool the
sound of the planes when they're going
bike you don't hear that anywhere else
because it's not a normal occurrence to
be flying this fast this is close to
people so it's pretty unique since we're
doing outstanding all right well great
luck to you and thank you so much for
your time
hey race fans we're here with Andy Chi
ivetta he is one of the builders of
these Lancer legacy airplanes and tell
me a little bit about that where you're
based and what you do well we're in san
clemente and we've been racing for quite
a few years actually we're we were one
at four years we have most victories in
sport class I've done some major changes
with the plan this year the only thing
is just a lot of teething things that
each year we would build upon what we
learn from the past but we have a new
engine different type of engine and a
different settings so it's been a
learning curve for us we have a lot of
horsepower but getting it to apply to
what we want to do this year's bit tough
our limitations right now what we have
really push it as hard as we buy tell
you truth we normally would pull 65 70
inches but with the geared engine we can
actually pull back on the on the boost
which was nicer for the intricacy rpm
everything's running higher so we've
been taking little baby steps to see
what manifold it wants to do there's
good pilots out here you see some
awesome flying but it's also a
technology risk and it's in order to
pass someone you have to be 15 miles an
hour faster even if it's the greatest
pilot so it's it's interesting see what
everyone does each year we have very
small sponsorship we do have Pacific
continental now working with us but in
general it's just me in the shop so it's
a lot of work you're your own innovator
yeah I tried it yeah well very cool well
thank you so much for your time and very
good luck with all your airplanes thank
you thank you
hi there race fans it's jesse panzer
good word the sport class hanger the
superb Xavier anyway we're here with
Dave sterling he's the pilot of this
beautiful aircraft and Dave tell us
where you're from san diego california
what do you do there not much why should
I fly for the airlines oh so I don't do
much I just fly at work and I fly for
pleasure outstanding well this looks
very pleasurable it's a lot different
than work I take my frustrations out in
this because they get upset when I do
this where the airliners they don't like
that yeah well that's very true
absolutely I fly 50 feet very low they
don't like that how many years have you
been racing this is my third year I did
not build the airplane to rice I built
it for an airplane that could just fly
around myself and about two years into
it one of the pylon judges who has an
airplane bhama hanger said Dave why
don't you race my answer was why I just
never thought about it but it put the
bug in my brain I thought you know I'll
never done much exciting in 25,000 hours
of flying so well that's right so I did
and I kind of got hooked it's a lot of
fun speed is addicting I've always liked
to go fast the faster the better so 300
miles an hour at 50 feet is a rush no
doubt what's your favorite thing about
Reno my favorite thing the people here
are great that's one thing I've noticed
is all the racers here are great the
people that help our great it become
utter he's wonderful and the flying yeah
the flying is great but the people are
here all the time I'm on the track about
eight minutes but I'm with the people
24-7 that's it exactly right the people
are one
full here and you ought to be coming out
to see us all these people so anyway
thank you so much day very very good